How does the web work?

The Web is known as a client-server system. Your computer is the client and the remote computers
that store electronic files are the servers. In short, this is how a Web client-server
interaction happens :

First, a user enters a URL into a browser (for example, Google.com). This request is then passed
to a domain name server (DNS). The domain name server returns an IP address for the server that
hosts the Website (for example, 68.178.157.132). Next, the browser requests the page from the Web
server using the IP address specified by the domain name server. The Web server returns the page
to the IP address specified by the browser requesting the page. The page may also contain links
to other files on the same server, such as images, which the browser will also request. Finally,
the browser collects all the information and displays to your computer in the form of Web page.

What do you need to be a web developer?

It mainly requires the mastery of these three languages: HTML, CSS and JavaScript. They are the
three pillars of web development since they're collectively what make a website function, by
defining the content to be displayed (HTML), instructing a browser how to display that content
(CSS), and making the content interactive (JavaScript).

A web developer is well-versed in these three technologies. They can read other people's code
and make changes to it. They can find and debug errors that are called "bugs" (shortcomings in
existing code). A web developer might, at times, work on a new project (a new website) from
scratch, or may have to work on an existing website and make it better. A typical day in the
life of a web developer involves fixing bugs, developing new features (enhancements) and web
pages, and working with other developers to discuss ways to solve problems.

Why did you choose to learn web development?

I want to broaden my horizons further. I studied Operationnal Research (OR) at university, then
Artificial Intelligence (AI) outside of university, and now I feel like web development is the
next step should take if I want to put what I learned in OR and AI in good use, since I'm still
lacking in some important computer science aspects like backend, frontend and APIs in general.